Rewrite REST examples to use QS + Misc fixes (#541)
strapi/documentation: docs/developer-docs/latest/developer-resources/database-apis-reference/rest/populating-fields.md

---
title: Population for REST API - Strapi Developer Docs
description: Use Strapi's REST API to populate or select certain fields.
sidebarDepth: 3
canonicalUrl: https://docs.strapi.io/developer-docs/latest/developer-resources/database-apis-reference/rest/populating-fields.html
---

# REST API: Population & Field Selection

The [REST API](/developer-docs/latest/developer-resources/database-apis-reference/rest-api.md) by default does not populate any relations, media fields, components, or dynamic zones. It will return all fields for the model and while populating.

## Field selection

> Queries can accept a `fields` parameter to select only some fields. By default Strapi will return all normal fields and field selection will not work on relational, media, component, or dynamic zone fields, to see how to properly populate these refer to the [population documentation](#population).

Reviewer: Not sure we should use "normal". We should be more specific. What's a 'normal` field?
Suggestion:
"By default, only the following types of fields are returned: [ insert types that are returned here].

Fields selection does not work on relational, media, component, or dynamic zone fields. Use [population](#population) instead.

::::api-call
:::request Example request: Select only title & body fields

```js
const qs = require('qs');
const query = qs.stringify({
  fields: ['title', 'body'],
}, {
  encodeValuesOnly: true,
});

await request(`/api/users?${query}`);
// GET /api/users?fields[0]=title&fields[1]=body
```

:::

:::response Example response

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "attributes": {
        "title": "test1",
        "body": "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.",
      }
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
    // ...
  }
}
```

:::
::::

> :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip
```

> By default all normal fields are selected, but you can specify a wildcard `*` instead of an array.

Reviewer: Same comment about "normal". We should be more explicit.

:::

## Population

Queries can accept a `populate` parameter to populate various field types:

> - [Relations & Media Fields](#relation-media-fields)

Reviewer: Please use lowercase :-)

- [Components & Dynamic Zones](#component-dynamic-zones)

It is also possible to [combine population with multiple operators](#combining-population-with-other-operators) among various other operators to have much more control over the population.

> :::caution

Reviewer: Please combine the cautions and use a bullet list: 
::: caution
* [content for caution 1]
* [content for caution 2]

> By default Strapi will not populate any type of fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default Strapi will not populate any type of fields.
```

:::

:::caution

> At this time there is no mechanism to return just an array of IDs. This is something that is currently under discussion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's currently not possible to return just an array of IDs. This is something that is currently under discussion.
```

:::

### Relation & Media fields

Queries can accept a `populate` parameter to explicitly define which fields to populate, with the following syntax option examples.

:::caution

> If the users-permissions plugin is installed, permissions must be enabled for the content-types that are being populated (role based). **If a role doesn't have access to a content-type it will not be populated.**

Reviewer: I would either remove the "role based" parenthesis or be more explicit, it's not super clear to me.

                    },
                    // ...
                  }
                }
              ]
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
    // ...
}
```

:::
::::

::::api-call
:::request Example request: Deeply populate a Dynamic Zone with 2 components

```js
const qs = require('qs');
const query = qs.stringify({
  populate: {
    testDZ: {
      populate: '*',
    },
  },
}, {
  encodeValuesOnly: true,
});

await request(`/api/articles?${query}`);
// GET /api/articles?populate[testDZ][populate]=%2A
```

:::

:::response Example response

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "attributes": {
        "testString": "test1",
        // ...
        "testDZ": [
          {
            "id": 3,
            "__component": "test.test-compo",
            "testString": "test1",
            "testNestedCompo": {
              "id": 3,
              "testNestedString": "testNested1"
            }
          },
          {
            "id": 1,
            "__component": "test.test-compo2",
            "testInt": 1
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
    // ...
  }
}
```

:::
::::

### Combining Population with other operators

> By utilizing the `population` operator you can combine other operators such as [field selection](/developer-docs/latest/developer-resources/database-apis-reference/rest/populating-fields.md#field-selection) & [sort & pagination](/developer-docs/latest/developer-resources/database-apis-reference/rest/sort-pagination.md) into your population queries. See the following complex population examples:

Reviewer: Please rephrase to avoid using "you" :-)
